Model in which I investigate the hypothesis that the presence of meiotic distorters can create a selection pressure on the propensity to mate assortatively.

This is a two locus model. Individuals have two genes. One determines the amount by which individuals mate assortatively. This can be a continous variable, where one means that they only ever mate with a genetically identical individual, and zero means that they mate with a random individual.

The second locus is the meotic distorter locus. At this locus there are fair and cheat alleles.

Meiotic drive:
h,s and delta, which defines the dynamcis of the genetic distortion. This puts the game in one of the four fundamental types of two player games.

Dynamics of assortative mating:
Individuals have two genes, each is a real number \in [0,1]. The desired assortativity is then determined by these two genes, call them a_1 and a_2, assume, by definition that a_1 > a_2. Then the actual assortativity of the individual is given by  q * a_1 + (1-q)*a_2. Thus if q=1/2 this is simply the mean of the two alleles, if q is 1, then the larger value is completely dominant, and if q = 0 then the smaller value is completely dominant. q thus meassures the dominance of the larger assortative mating allele. To begin with set q = 1/2.

Fitness of individiuals: individuals' fitness is determined soley by the meitic drive locus, the other locus only effects things indirectly.

Choosing a mate: the population is divided into two equal halves. We might call one of these the females, but this is not important. Each individuals picks a mate, this is done assortatively due to the value of the desisired assortative mating. If A = 1 then they pick a clonal mate if possible, (if not possible they pick the closest thing) if A = 0 they pick a random mate. WHAT HAPPENS FOR THE INBETWEEN CASES, THIS IS MORE TRICKY. DO THEY CERTAINLY PICK AN INDIVIDUAL OF HALF RELATEDNESS, OR WITH A CERTAIN PROBABILITY ONE CLONALLY RELATED.

Reproduction: Once pairing have taken place then the couples reproduce. We assign the pair a fitness, whcih is the average fitness of the two individuals. The create a number of offspring in proportion to their joint fitness. The offspring has genes based on the genotypes of each of the parents.

Crossover: with probability c the two alleles at each locus break in two and are inherited potentially seprately. c = 0 is no crossover, and the haplotype is inherited as is. c=1 means they are broken up always, but could still be inherited together by chance.

Class and File Structure

Classes:

One class for an individual. This should contain values for all of the four allels. A method for retriving fitness (with parameters passed in). A method for choosing a mate given a list of choices, and a method for reproducing. The genes, genotypes and haplotypes don't need to be objects, this is over-kill.

The population can be another class, it's main field is a list of individuals. It should also have methods for new generations.

Finally there should be a class for the entire model, this is a thin wrapper for the population class, but should contain the plotting functionality.

Functions for helping can live in another directory. This can be functions for things like finding equilibrium of games etc.